The serve in table tennis is governed by strict rules to ensure fair plane conditions.
In this video you'll discover all the requirements for a legal serve that meets the official regulations.
The serve must begin with the ball resting on the open palm of the hand.
Holding it with a closed hand is not allowed, and placing it on the fingers could also be considered
an infringement. The ball must remain behind the end line and above the surface of the table.
You can serve from any position as long as the ball stays outside this area from the toss until
it is hit. If during the serve the ball moves in front of the end line, or is hidden below the
table surface, it will be considered a fault. The ball must be tossed vertically, without adding
any intentional spin, and must reach a minimum height of 16 cm. While a perfectly perpendicular
toss is not required, excessive deviation may be considered a fault, depending on the umpire's
interpretation. Once the ball has been tossed, the serve is considered initiated, and if you fail to
hit it or stop your movement, it will be counted as a failed serve. In table tennis there is no second
serve opportunity as in other sports, so you will automatically lose the point.
The ball must be hit during its descent. Hitting it while it is still rising or when it is
exactly at its highest point is not allowed. The visibility of the ball during the serve is another
crucial aspect. From the moment the ball is tossed until it is hit, it must remain fully visible to
the opponent at all times. It is not allowed to hide it with the arm, head, or any part of the body.
If at any point the ball goes out of the opponent's line of sight, the serve will be considered and
valid. Once the ball is hit, it must first bounce on your side of the table and then on your
opponent's side. If during this process, the ball touches the net but still lands correctly on the
opponent's side, the serve is considered a let and must be replayed. There is no limit to the
number of times a serve can be repeated in the case of a let. In singles matches, you can serve to
any area of the table. However, in doubles matches, the serve must be performed diagonally,
from the server's right hand side to the receiver's right hand side. The umpire has the authority to
determine whether a serve is valid or not. Depending on the severity of the infringement,
the umpire may issue a warning or directly award the point to the opponent.